== Getting Start with App42

1. Sign up
2. Install the App42 client
3. Configure App42 credentials
4. Setup infrastructure for required environment
5. Create service (couchdb)
6. Deploy a Ruby on Rails application

=== Sign up

Sign up OR login(http://paas.shephertz.com/logIn.php) for a App42PaaS account, if you don’t already have account.

- visit http://54.218.127.212:8081 website and click Login OR Signup link. 

- You can login/Signup using Facebook,Github OR Shephertz account. 

Once you login, Go to profile link, where you will get API and Secret key.

=== Install the App42 client

==== Linux


To install the client gem, you must have ruby installed on your system.

1.INSTALL THE NEEDED LIBRARIES
     
    sudo apt-get install zlib1g zlib1g-dev build-essential openssl libssl-dev libmysqlclient18 libmysqlclient-dev libyaml-dev
 
2.DOWNLOAD AND INSTALL RUBY 1.9.3(you may install latest ruby too)

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install ruby1.9.3

3. Check the ruby version.

    $ ruby -v
    
4. INSTALL APP42 CLIENT (download app42 client and move to download directory )

    $gem install app42-0.5.1.gem   
    
5. Check the version of the currently loaded App42 client

    $ app42  version    
    
===== Note: app42 require Ruby 1.9.2 or newer.  

==== Mac OS X

To install the client gem, you must have ruby installed on your system.

Ruby 1.8.7 is fully supported in Mac OS X Lion as well as many popular Ruby gems (packages). For details, see the  Ruby wiki at Mac OS Forge. 
You can use MacPort to download and compile everything.

1. Install MacPort http://www.macports.org/

2. From a terminal window, install Ruby

    $ sudo port install ruby19 _nosuffix
    $ sudo port select --set ruby ruby19
    $ alias ruby='/opt/local/bin/ruby1.9'

3. Check ruby version.
 
    $ ruby -v

4. INSTALL APP42 CLIENT (download app42 client and move to download dir )

    $gem install app42-0.5.1.gem

5. Check the version of the currently loaded App42 client

    $ app42  version

===== Note: app42 require Ruby 1.9.2 or newer.
    
==== Windows    

To install the client gem, you must have ruby installed on your system.

Download and install Ruby Installer(http://rubyinstaller.org/) for Windows and set ruby to your path to access App42 from command prompt.

Then got to command prompt from windows Start menu,  Open cmd and install App42 client.

1. Check ruby version.

    $ ruby -v

2. INSTALL APP42 CLIENT(download app42 client and move to download dir )

    $ gem install app42-0.5.0.gem

3. Check the version of the currently loaded App42 client

    $ app42  version

===== Note: app42 require Ruby 1.9.2 or newer.

=== Configure App42 credentials

After installing the App42, you’ll have access to the App42 command from your command shell. Configure API and Secret key using below command.

1. List keys of the current user

    $app42 keys
    
2. Add API and secret keys on dev system

    $app42 addKeys
    
=== Setup infrastructure for required environment(Rails 4.0 + Couchdb)


    $ app42 setupInfra   
    
=== Prerequisite production environment configuration

Gemfile(app_root_dir/Gemfile)

If you are use a different database in development.
Create or change the production group to include couchrest_model
#Ensure the Coucndb gem is defined in your Gemfile 

    group :production do 
      gem 'couchrest_model'
    end

config

In config/environments/production.rb change

    config.assets.compile = false => config.assets.compile = true

and

    config.serve_static_assets = false => config.serve_static_assets = true

and uncomment below configuration.

    config.action_dispatch.x_sendfile_header = 'X-Accel-Redirect' # for nginx

=== Create service (Couchdb)

    $ app42 createService
    
DB Configure for Production environment (application_root_dir/config/database.yml) 
    
    protocol: 'https'
    host: <host>
    port: <port>
    prefix: <database name>
    suffix: production
    username: <user_name>
    password: '<password>'
    
=== Deploy a Ruby on Rails application

    $ app42 deploy

==== Get application details:

    $ app42 appInfo --app AppName    
    
Visit your application:

